ind
===

'ind' is a bash script which calculates the Byzantine date, indiction for
current and Byzantine date, and the Buddhist year.

## Installation
Copy to your local 'bin' directory, or somewhere in path.

## A brief history of dating systems:

The Byzantine calendar: also "Creation Era of Constantinople," or "Era of
the World" was the calendar used by the Eastern Orthodox Church from c. 691
to 1728 in the Ecumenical Patriarchate. It was also the official calendar of
the Byzantine Empire from 988 to 1453, and in Russia from c. 988 to 1700.
The calendar is based on the Julian calendar except that the year started on
1 September and the year number used an Anno Mundi epoch derived from the
Septuagint version of the Bible. It placed the date of creation at 5509
years before the Incarnation, and was characterized by a certain tendency
which had already been a tradition amongst Jews and early Christians to
number the years from the foundation of the world. (Latin: ‘Annus Mundi’ —
A.M.). Its year one, the supposed date of creation, was September 1, 5509 BC
to August 31, 5508 BC.

An indiction: is any of the years in a 15-year cycle used to date medieval
documents throughout Europe, both East and West. Each year of a cycle was
numbered: first indiction, second indiction, etc. However, the cycles were
not numbered, thus other information is needed to identify the specific
year.

The Buddhist calendar: is a set of lunisolar calendars primarily used in
mainland Southeast Asian countries of Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Thailand
as well as in Sri Lanka for religious and/or official occasions. While the
calendars share a common lineage, they also have minor but important
variations such as intercalation schedules, month names and numbering, use
of cycles, etc. In Thailand, the name Buddhist Era is a year numbering
system shared by the traditional Thai lunisolar calendar and by the Thai
solar calendar.

{Wikipedia}
